# LINEST

> Returns the parameters of a linear trend

## Syntax
LINEST(known_y's, [known_x's], [const], [stats])

The LINEST function syntax has the following arguments:

## Examples
- Example 1 - Slope and Y-InterceptCopy the example data in the following table, and paste it in cell A1 of a new Excel worksheet. For formulas to show results, select them, press F2, and then press Enter. If you need to, you can adjust the column widths to see all the data.Known yKnown x10945273Result (slope)Result (y-intercept)21Formula (array formula in cells A7:B7)=LINEST(A2:A5,B2:B5,,FALSE)

- Example 2 - Simple Linear RegressionCopy the example data in the following table, and paste it in cell A1 of a new Excel worksheet. For formulas to show results, select them, press F2, and then press Enter. If you need to, you can adjust the column widths to see all the data.MonthSales1$3,1002$4,5003$4,4004$5,4005$7,5006$8,100FormulaResult=SUM(LINEST(B1:B6, A1:A6)*{9,1})$11,000Calculates the estimate of the sales in the ninth month, based on sales in months 1 through 6.

- Example 3 - Multiple Linear RegressionCopy the example data in the following table, and paste it in cell A1 of a new Excel worksheet. For formulas to show results, select them, press F2, and then press Enter. If you need to, you can adjust the column widths to see all the data.Floor space (x1)Offices (x2)Entrances (x3)Age (x4)Assessed value (y)23102220$142,00023332212$144,000235631.533$151,00023793243$150,00024022353$139,00024254223$169,000244821.599$126,00024712234$142,90024943323$163,00025174455$169,00025402322$149,000-234.237164513.268011480.996747993459.75367421732393319Formula (dynamic array formula entered in A19)=LINEST(E2:E12,A2:D12,TRUE,TRUE)

- Example 4 - Using the F and r2StatisticsIn the preceding example, the coefficient of determination, or r2, is 0.99675 (see cell A17 in the output forLINEST), which would indicate a strong relationship between the independent variables and the sale price. You can use the F statistic to determine whether these results, with such a high r2 value, occurred by chance.Assume for the moment that in fact there is no relationship among the variables, but that you have drawn a rare sample of 11 office buildings that causes the statistical analysis to demonstrate a strong relationship. The term "Alpha" is used for the probability of erroneously concluding that there is a relationship.The F and df values in output from theLINESTfunction can be used to assess the likelihood of a higher F value occurring by chance. F can be compared with critical values in published F-distribution tables or theFDISTfunction in Excel can be used to calculate the probability of a larger F value occurring by chance. The appropriate F distribution has v1 and v2 degrees of freedom. If n is the number of data points and const = TRUE or omitted, then v1 = n – df – 1 and v2 = df. (If const = FALSE, then v1 = n – df and v2 = df.) TheFDISTfunction — with the syntaxFDIST(F,v1,v2) — will return the probability of a higher F value occurring by chance. In this example, df = 6 (cell B18) and F = 459.753674 (cell A18).Assuming an Alpha value of 0.05, v1 = 11 – 6 – 1 = 4 and v2 = 6, the critical level of F is 4.53. Since F = 459.753674 is much higher than 4.53, it is extremely unlikely that an F value this high occurred by chance. (With Alpha = 0.05, the hypothesis that there is no relationship betweenknown_y’sandknown_x’sis to be rejected when F exceeds the critical level, 4.53.) You can use theFDISTfunction in Excel to obtain the probability that an F value this high occurred by chance. For example,FDIST(459.753674, 4, 6) = 1.37E-7, an extremely small probability. You can conclude, either by finding the critical level of F in a table or by using theFDISTfunction, that the regression equation is useful in predicting the assessed value of office buildings in this area. Remember that it is critical to use the correct values of v1 and v2 that were computed in the preceding paragraph.

- Example 5 - Calculating the t-StatisticsAnother hypothesis test will determine whether each slope coefficient is useful in estimating the assessed value of an office building inExample 3. For example, to test the age coefficient for statistical significance, divide -234.24 (age slope coefficient) by 13.268 (the estimated standard error of age coefficients in cell A15). The following is the t-observed value:t = m4 ÷ se4 = -234.24 ÷ 13.268 = -17.7If the absolute value of t is sufficiently high, it can be concluded that the slope coefficient is useful in estimating the assessed value of an office building inExample 3. The following table shows the absolute values of the 4 t-observed values.If you consult a table in a statistics manual, you will find that t-critical, two tailed, with 6 degrees of freedom and Alpha = 0.05 is 2.447. This critical value can also be found by using theTINVfunction in Excel.TINV(0.05,6) = 2.447. Because the absolute value of t (17.7) is greater than 2.447, age is an important variable when estimating the assessed value of an office building. Each of the other independent variables can be tested for statistical significance in a similar manner. The following are the t-observed values for each of the independent variables.Variablet-observed valueFloor space5.1Number of offices31.3Number of entrances4.8Age17.7These values all have an absolute value greater than 2.447; therefore, all the variables used in the regression equation are useful in predicting the assessed value of office buildings in this area.

---

[Original Documentation](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/linest-function-84d7d0d9-6e50-4101-977a-fa7abf772b6d)